Quantum entanglement is a fundamental phenomenon in quantum mechanics where two or more particles become interconnected in such a way that the quantum state of one particle cannot be described independently of the state of the other particle(s), even when the particles are separated by large distances. This means that measurements performed on one particle instantly influence the state of the other entangled particle, no matter how far apart they are.

# Single Qubit

 - 2 well defined states, $\ket{0}$, $\ket{{1}}$
 - superposition: 
 $$\alpha_{0} \ket{0} + \alpha_{1} \ket{1} \qquad |\alpha_{0}|^2 + |\alpha_{1}|^2 = 1$$

$$P(0) = |\alpha_{0}|^2 \qquad P(1) = |\alpha_{1}|^2$$
 
 - notation: 
 $$\ket{+} = \frac{\ket{0}+ \ket{1}}{\sqrt{2}} \qquad \ket{-} = \frac{\ket{0} - \ket{1}}{\sqrt{2}}$$
 - measure $\ket{+} = \frac{\ket{0} + \ket{1}}{\sqrt{ 2 }}$ in:
 $$\{\ket{0}, \ket{1} \} \space\space basis  \rightarrow 50\% \space \text{probability of 0 and 50\% probablity in 1}$$
 $$\{\ket{+}, \ket{-} \} \space\space basis  \rightarrow 100\% \space \text{probability of + and 0\% probablity in } -$$
 
# Two Qubit

 Alice:
 
$$\ket{\psi} = \alpha_{0} \ket{0} + \alpha_{1} \ket{1} $$

Bob:

$$\ket{\psi} = \beta_{0} \ket{0} + \beta_{1} \ket{1}$$

- combination of $\ket{0}_{A} \otimes \ket{0}_{B}, \quad \ket{1}_{A} \otimes \ket{0}_{B}, \quad \ket{0}_{A} \otimes \ket{1}_{B}, \quad \ket{1}_{A} \otimes \ket{1}_{B}$
- notation: $\ket{0}_{A} \otimes \ket{0}_{B} \equiv \ket{00}_{AB} \equiv \ket{00}$
- join state: $\ket{\psi}_{A} \otimes \ket{\phi}_{B} = (\alpha_{0} \ket{0} + \alpha_{1}\ket{1}) \otimes (\beta_{0}\ket{0} + \beta_{1}\ket{1}) = \alpha_{0}\beta_{0}\ket{00} + \alpha_{1}\beta_{0}\ket{10} + \alpha_{0}\beta_{1} \ket{01} + \alpha_{1}\beta_{1} \ket{11}$
# Measurement Probabilities


$$\ket{State \space1} = \frac{\ket{00} + \ket{10} + \ket{01} + \ket{11}}{2} \rightarrow P_{A}(0) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{A}(1) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{B}(0) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{B}(1) = \frac{1}{2}$$
$$
P_{A}(0) = |\frac{1}{2}|^2 + |\frac{1}{2}|^2 = \frac{2}{4} = \frac{1}{2}
$$

$$\ket{State \space 2} = \frac{\ket{00} + \ket{11}}{\sqrt{ 2 }} \rightarrow P_{A}(0) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{A}(1) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{B}(0) = \frac{1}{2}, \quad P_{B}(1) = \frac{1}{2}$$

# Entanglement is in the corelations

$$
\ket{State 1} = \frac{\ket{00} + \ket{10} + \ket{01} + \ket{11}}{2} 
$$

$$
P\begin{pmatrix}\text{A measures }0\\\text{B measures }1\end{pmatrix}\equiv P(01)=\frac{1}{4}
$$


$$
\ket{State \space 2} = \frac{\ket{00} + \ket{11}}{\sqrt{ 2 }}
$$

$$
P(01) = 0
$$

> only when A and B share their results, they realise they are entangled! 

# An underwhelming definition

# Quantum Cryptography

The philosophical implication of quantum mechanics caused a huge debate between Einstein and Bohr. One important argument of Einstein is that quantum mechanics is incomplete, resulting in the “EPR Paradox” proposed in 1935. The paradox was not solved until 1964 by John Bell (via Bell's inequality), where quantum mechanics emerged victorious. This was done by using long-distance correlations of particles in quantum mechanics, called quantum entanglement. Since then, quantum entanglement has been applied to quantum cryptography, a method of encryption that cannot be hacked if applied correctly (refer to Quantum Key Distribution, Entanglement & Teleportation, and Bell Nonlocality). 

















#physics #nus #qcamp
